Aston Martin is a British car manufacturer that has participated in Formula One in various forms. The company first participated in Formula One during the 1959 season where they debuted the DBR4 chassis using their own engine but it failed to score any points. They continued to perform poorly through the 1960 season, once again failing to score any points. As a result, Aston Martin decided to leave Formula One after 1960.
A commercial rebranding of Racing Point F1 Team resulted in the team's return as Aston Martin in 2021, although it competes using Mercedes power units. The team, owned by Lawrence Stroll, has Sebastian Vettel and Lance Stroll as their race drivers.
Aston Martin first entered Formula One with the DBR4, their first open-wheel racing car. The DBR4 was first built and tested in 1957 but did not make its Formula One debut until 1959. This delay was caused by the company prioritising the development of the DBR1 sports car, which went on to win the 1959 24 Hours of Le Mans. By the DBR4's world championship debut at the Dutch Grand Prix, it had become outdated and struggled for pace against its competitors, with Carroll Shelby and Roy Salvadori qualifying 10th and 13th respectively out of 15.Salvadori retired from the race in the early laps with an engine failure, with Shelby's car suffering the same fate later in the race.
The team's next entry came at the British Grand Prix where Salvadori was surprised by qualifying in 2nd place.Early in the race, one of Shelby's ignition magnetos failed, harming his car's pace. The second magneto failed late in the race, causing his retirement. Salvadori could only hold on to 6th place, narrowly missing out on a points finish.At the Portuguese Grand Prix, both cars avoided issues to finish 6th and 8th but still failed to score points.Aston Martin's final entry of the season was the Italian Grand Prix where both cars continued to struggle, qualifying only 17th and 19th. During the race, Salvadori had run as high as 7th before suffering an engine failure whilst Shelby came home to finish 10th.The car was significantly outdated by its rivals and failed to score any points.


