Red Bull Racing came into existence late in 2004 with ambitions to challenge for race victories and world championship titles. Christian Horner was appointed team principal soon after and has guided the development of the team ever since.
This was not the work of a moment. Over the next four seasons, solid foundations were laid. The team recruited in both quantity and quality, steadily expanding until it was capable of going toe-to-toe with the most illustrious names in racing.
The team finished comfortably mid-table in 2005 and 2006. The initial driver line-up mixed youth and experience: David Coulthard provided the latter, while Christian Klien, Vitantonio Liuzzi and Robert Doornbos were the former. DC scored our first podium, finishing third at the 2006 Monaco Grand Prix.
For 2007, Mark Webber came onboard to join DC. The team finished fifth that year but dropped back to seventh again in 2008, although everything was going to change in 2009.
David Coulthard retired at the end of 2008 to be replaced by Sebastian Vettel. Sebs arrival coincided with a major reset in the sports aerodynamic regulations. The new rules gave the technical team the chance to shine. With the RB5, they produced a winner: Vettel took Red Bull Racings first victory, leading home Webber in a 1-2 finish at the Chinese Grand Prix. The car would win five more times in 2009, including Webbers debut F1 victory at the Nürburgring. The team finished second in the Constructors Championship but, perhaps more significantly, it won the final three races of the season. Strong in-season development is a hallmark of the team, the origin story of which largely begins here.
History was made in 2010. Driving the RB6, Webber and Vettel were title contenders from the start. Their consistent podium finishes secured the Constructors Championship at the penultimate round in Brazil. Both drivers went to the final race in Abu Dhabi with a shot at the Drivers crown. Vettel emerged triumphant, winning the race to become the sports youngest ever World Champion. A record that still stands.

